TELCODOCS#1754: 4.15 release note updates for LVM Storage (#71072)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-15-release-notes.adoc

[id="ocp-4-15-storage"]
=== Storage

[id="ocp-4.15-storage-recovering-vgs-from-prev-installation"]
==== Recovering volume groups from the previous {lvms} installation

> With this release, `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR) provides support for recovering volume groups from the previous {lvms} installation. If the `deviceClasses.name` field is set to the name of a volume group from the previous {lvms} installation, {lvms} recreates that volume group in the current {lvms} installation. This simplifies the process of data recovery through the re-installation of {lvms}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this release, `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR) provides support for recovering volume groups from the previous {lvms} installation. If the `deviceClasses.name` field is set to the name of a volume group from the previous {lvms} installation, {lvms} recreates resources related to that volume group in the current {lvms} installation. This simplifies the process of using devices from previous installations through the re-installation of {lvms}.
```
This does not allow data recovery but convenience to the users to utilize existing devices without the need to wipe them.

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

For more information, see xref:..//storage/persistent_storage/persistent_storage_local/persistent-storage-local.adoc#local-volume-cr_persistent-storage-local[Provisioning local volumes by using the Local Storage Operator].

[id="ocp-4.15-storage-support-for-wiping-the-devices"]

> ==== Support for wiping the devices

Reviewer: I see that LSO and LVMS release notes are bundled inside Storage section. Would it make sense to separate them into their titles under Storage? If not, we should use the LVMS product name in every feature that is related to LVMS like this one.

Author: Hi @suleymanakbas91 
I agree with you. I have included "LVM Storage" in all the section headings. 
The other sections in the release note do not have sections based on Operators. Hence, including the Operator name in the section heading would be best to maintain consistency.

Reviewer 2: QQ: should we for an optional operator even add this to the central release notes? Probably not right? Because we have separate release cadence.

Author: We should have it in the central release notes as LVMS is aligned with OCP release.

[WARNING]
====
{lvms} only supports node local storage on multi-node clusters. It does not support storage data replication mechanisim across nodes. When you are using {lvms} on multi-node clusters, you must ensure storage data replication through active or passive replication mechanism to avoid single point of failure.
==== 

For more information, see xref:..//storage/persistent_storage/persistent_storage_local/persistent-storage-local.adoc#local-volume-cr_persistent-storage-local[Provisioning local volumes by using the Local Storage Operator].

[id="ocp-4.15-storage-support-for-integrating-raid-arrays-with-lvms"]
==== Integrating RAID arrays with {lvms}

This feature provides support for integrating RAID arrays that are created using the `mdadm` utility with {lvms}.  The `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR) provides support for adding paths to the RAID arrays in the `deviceSelector.paths` field and the `deviceSelector.optionalPaths` field.

> [id="ocp-4.14-storage-fips-conpliance-support-for-lvms"]

Author: Just to confirm:

"FIPS compliance support for LVMS" must be removed?

> [id="ocp-4.14-storage-fips-conpliance-support-for-lvms"]

Author: Based on the suggestion from @DanielFroehlich ,
the release note was updated as follows:

"With this release, {lvms} is designed for Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS). When {lvms} is installed on {product-title} in FIPS mode, {lvms} uses the RHEL cryptographic libraries that are FIPS compliant."

@jakobmoellerdev - Could you confirm if this release note should be removed?

> [id="ocp-4.14-storage-fips-conpliance-support-for-lvms"]

Reviewer 2: This is not correct I believe. We do not use cryptographic libraries that are FIPS compliant, we use libraries that have been submitted to NIST but have not yet been given FIPS certification just yet.

> [id="ocp-4.14-storage-fips-conpliance-support-for-lvms"]

Author: Oh okay.
You also mentioned that "we need to remove this part". I just wanted to confirm if we should remove this entire section ("FIPS compliance support for LVMS").

> [id="ocp-4.14-storage-fips-conpliance-support-for-lvms"]

Reviewer 3: @sr1kar99 
I checked with @DanielFroehlich. Here's the approved text we can use:

> With this release, LVMS is designed for Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS). When LVMS is installed on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform in FIPS mode, LVMS uses the RHEL cryptographic libraries that have been submitted to NIST for FIPS 140-3 validation on only the x86_64 architecture.

> [id="ocp-4.14-storage-fips-conpliance-support-for-lvms"]

Author: @danmacpherson 
Thank you for the update.
This release note has been added.

==== FIPS compliance support for {lvms}

> With this release, {lvms} is Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) compliant. When {lvms} is installed on {product-title} in FIPS mode, {lvms} uses the RHEL cryptographic libraries that have been submitted to NIST for FIPS 140-3 validation. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this release, {lvms} is designed for Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS). When {lvms} is installed on {product-title} in FIPS mode, {lvms} uses the RHEL cryptographic libraries that have been submitted to NIST for FIPS 140-3 validation. 
```

Reviewer 2: Latest changes since 9.3 is not yet compliant (no NIST approval)

Author: You mean RHEL 9.3 is not yet FIPS compliant?

Could you provide more context?

Reviewer 2: Yes of course:
RHEL 9.3 crypto libraries such as OpenSSL have been submitted to NIST for FIPS 140-3 validation. However they are not yet approved so technically they are not certified yet.

Author: Okay.
Is the last part of the line relevant to the users?
Can we rather say "When {lvms} is installed on {product-title} in FIPS mode, {lvms} uses the RHEL cryptographic libraries to "do something".

And add a note saying,
"Currently, RHEL 9.2 and lower versions are FIPS compliant. RHEL 9.3 is not yet FILPS compliant. 
RHEL 9.3 cryptographic libraries that have been submitted to NIST for FIPS 140-3 validation.(Optional)"

Reviewer 2: We could write "When {lvms} is installed on {product-title} in FIPS mode, {lvms} uses the RHEL cryptographic libraries that have been submitted to NIST for FIPS 140-3 validation"

Reviewer 2: And RHEL9.2 is also not compliant as I know: https://access.redhat.com/articles/2918071

Author: Which versions of RHEL are currently FIPS compliant?

Reviewer 2: RHEL cannot be FIPS compliant only the underlying crypto libraries like openssl. And solutions like LVMS can only be "Designed for FIPS" and not be FIPS compliant themselves. Maybe reach out to @DanielFroehlich for specifics on the communication?

Author: Hi @DanielFroehlich 

Is the following technically correct?
"With this release, {lvms} is designed for Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS). When {lvms} is installed on {product-title} in FIPS mode, {lvms} uses the RHEL cryptographic libraries that are FIPS compliant."

From the release note perspective, is there any additional info that we should add here?

Author: Thanks @DanielFroehlich for confirming that "we should avoid talking about version and their actual fips status".

This feature provides a new optional field `forceWipeDevicesAndDestroyAllData` in the `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR) to force wipe the selected devices. Prior to this release, wiping the devices required manually accessing the host. With this release, you can force wipe the disks without manual intervention. This simplifies the process of wiping the disks.
[WARNING]
====
If `forceWipeDevicesAndDestroyAllData` is set to `true`, {lvms} wipes all previous data on the devices. You must use this feature with caution.
====

For more information, see xref:..//storage/persistent_storage/persistent_storage_local/persistent-storage-using-lvms.adoc#lvms-creating-lvms-cluster_logical-volume-manager-storage[Creating an `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR)].

[id="ocp-4.15-storage-support-for-lvms-on-multi-node-clusters"]
==== Support for deploying {lvms} on multi-node clusters

This feature provides support for deploying {lvms} on multi-node clusters. Prior to this release, {lvms} only supported single-node configurations. With this release, {lvms} supports all the {product-title} deployment topologies. This enables provisioning of local storage on multi-node clusters.
[WARNING]
====

> {lvms} only supports node local storage on multi-node clusters. It does not support storage data replication mechanisim across nodes. When you are using {lvms} on multi-node clusters, you must ensure storage data replication through active or passive replication mechanism to avoid single point of failure.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{lvms} only supports node local storage on multi-node clusters. It does not support storage data replication mechanism across nodes. When using {lvms} on multi-node clusters, you must ensure storage data replication through active or passive replication mechanisms to avoid a single point of failure.
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

[id="ocp-4-15-storage"]
=== Storage

[id="ocp-4.15-storage-recovering-vgs-from-prev-installation"]
==== Recovering volume groups from the previous {lvms} installation

> With this release, `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR) provides support for recovering volume groups from the previous {lvms} installation. If the `deviceClasses.name` field is set to the name of a volume group from the previous {lvms} installation, {lvms} recreates the resources related to that volume group in the current {lvms} installation. This simplifies the process of using devices from the previous {lvms} installation through the re-installation of {lvms}.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
With this release, the `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR) provides support for recovering volume groups from the previous {lvms} installation. If the `deviceClasses.name` field is set to the name of a volume group from the previous {lvms} installation, {lvms} recreates the resources related to that volume group in the current {lvms} installation. This simplifies the process of using devices from the previous {lvms} installation through the re-installation of {lvms}.
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

> For more information, see xref:..//storage/persistent_storage/persistent_storage_local/persistent-storage-using-lvms.adoc#lvms-creating-lvms-cluster_logical-volume-manager-storage[Creating an `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR)].

Reviewer 5: All of your xrefs do resolve, but they each have an extra `/` at the front.

Author: Removed the extra "/".

[id="ocp-4.15-storage-support-for-wiping-the-devices"]
==== Support for wiping the devices in {lvms}

> This feature provides a new optional field `forceWipeDevicesAndDestroyAllData` in the `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR) to force wipe the selected devices. Prior to this release, wiping the devices required manually accessing the host. With this release, you can force wipe the disks without manual intervention. This simplifies the process of wiping the disks.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This feature provides a new optional field `forceWipeDevicesAndDestroyAllData` in the `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR) to force wipe the selected devices. Prior to this release, wiping the devices required you to manually access the host. With this release, you can force wipe the disks without manual intervention. This simplifies the process of wiping the disks.
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

[WARNING]
====
If `forceWipeDevicesAndDestroyAllData` is set to `true`, {lvms} wipes all previous data on the devices. You must use this feature with caution.
====

For more information, see xref:..//storage/persistent_storage/persistent_storage_local/persistent-storage-using-lvms.adoc#lvms-creating-lvms-cluster_logical-volume-manager-storage[Creating an `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR)].

[id="ocp-4.15-storage-support-for-lvms-on-multi-node-clusters"]
==== Support for deploying {lvms} on multi-node clusters

> This feature provides support for deploying {lvms} on multi-node clusters. Prior to this release, {lvms} only supported single-node configurations. With this release, {lvms} supports all the {product-title} deployment topologies. This enables provisioning of local storage on multi-node clusters.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This feature provides support for deploying {lvms} on multi-node clusters. Prior to this release, {lvms} only supported single-node configurations. With this release, {lvms} supports all of the {product-title} deployment topologies. This enables provisioning of local storage on multi-node clusters.
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

[id="ocp-4-15-storage"]
=== Storage

[id="ocp-4.15-storage-recovering-vgs-from-prev-installation"]
==== Recovering volume groups from the previous {lvms} installation

> With this release, the `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR) provides support for recovering volume groups from the previous {lvms} installation. If the `deviceClasses.name` field is set to the name of a volume group from the previous {lvms} installation, {lvms} recreates the resources related to that volume group in the current {lvms} installation. This simplifies the process of using devices from the previous {lvms} installation through the re-installation of {lvms}.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
With this release, the `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR) provides support for recovering volume groups from the previous {lvms} installation. If the `deviceClasses.name` field is set to the name of a volume group from the previous {lvms} installation, {lvms} recreates the resources related to that volume group in the current {lvms} installation. This simplifies the process of using devices from the previous {lvms} installation through the reinstallation of {lvms}.
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

> For more information, see xref:../storage/persistent_storage/persistent_storage_local/persistent-storage-using-lvms.adoc#lvms-creating-lvms-cluster_logical-volume-manager-storage[Creating an `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR)].

Reviewer 6: This link text doesn't match the section it links to, "Creating a Logical Volume Manager cluster on a worker node". Is this text being updated in another PR? Or should this be updated here to match?

Author: This heading is being updated in another PR. However, that PR might not be merged in this release. It is part of the doc improvements task. 
I have updated the link text to match with the current heading.

[id="ocp-4.15-storage-support-for-wiping-the-devices"]
==== Support for wiping the devices in {lvms}

> This feature provides a new optional field `forceWipeDevicesAndDestroyAllData` in the `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR) to force wipe the selected devices. Prior to this release, wiping the devices required you to manually access the host. With this release, you can force wipe the disks without manual intervention. This simplifies the process of wiping the disks.

Reviewer 6: Not critical for this PR, but in the future, recommend avoiding saying "This feature" and instead focusing on what the reader can do.

Author: ACK!

[WARNING]
====
If `forceWipeDevicesAndDestroyAllData` is set to `true`, {lvms} wipes all previous data on the devices. You must use this feature with caution.
====

> For more information, see xref:../storage/persistent_storage/persistent_storage_local/persistent-storage-using-lvms.adoc#lvms-creating-lvms-cluster_logical-volume-manager-storage[Creating an `LVMCluster` custom resource (CR)].

Reviewer 6: Same comment about this link next not matching

Author: Updated the link text to match with the current heading.

[id="ocp-4-15-storage-bug-fixes"]
==== Storage

* Prior to this release, {lvms} did not support disabling over-provisioning, and the minimum value for the `thinPoolConfig.overprovisionRatio` field in the `LVMCluster` CR was 2. With this release, you can disable over-provisioning by setting the value of the `thinPoolConfig.overprovisionRatio` field to 1. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-24396[OCPBUGS-24396])

* Prior to this relase, if the `LVMCluster` CR was created with an invalid device path in the `deviceSelector.optionalPaths` field , the `LVMCluster` CR was in `Progressing` state. With this release, If the `deviceSelector.optionalPaths` field contains an invalid device path, {lvms} updates the `LVMCluster` CR state to `Failed`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23995[OCPBUGS-23995])

> * Prior to this release, upon updating {product-title}, the old LVM resource pods were also scheduled on the cluster along with the latest LVM resource pods. With this release, upon updating {product-title}, {lvms} configures the `priorityClassName` parameter to ensure proper scheduling and preemption behavior while the cluster is congested. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23375[OCPBUGS-23375])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Prior to this release, LVMS resource pods were preempted while the cluster was congested. With this release, upon updating {product-title}, {lvms} configures the `priorityClassName` parameter to ensure proper scheduling and preemption behavior while the cluster is congested. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23375[OCPBUGS-23375])
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

* Prior to this release, upon creating the `LVMCluster` CR, {lvms} skipped the counting of volume groups. This resulted in the `LVMCluster` CR moving to `Progressing` state even when the volume groups were valid. With this release, upon creating the `LVMCluster` CR, {lvms} counts all the volume groups, and updates the `LVMCluster` CR state to `Ready` if the volume groups are valid. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23191[OCPBUGS-23191])

* Prior to this release, if the default device class was not present on all selected nodes, {lvms} failed to set up the `LVMCluster` CR. With this release, {lvms} detects all the default device classes even if the default device class is present only on one of the selected nodes. With this update, you can define the default device class only on one of the selected nodes. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23181[OCPBUGS-23181])

> * Prior to this release, upon deleting the worker node in the single-node OpenShift (SNO) and worker node topology, the `LVMCluster` CR still included the configuration of the deleted worker node. This resulted in the `LVMCluster` CR remaining in `Progressing` state. With this release, upon deleting the worker node in the SNO and worker node topology, {lvms} deletes the worker node configuration in the `LVMCluster` CR, and updates the `LVMCluster` CR state to `Active`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-13558[OCPBUGS-13558])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Prior to this release, upon deleting the worker node in the single-node OpenShift (SNO) and worker node topology, the `LVMCluster` CR still included the configuration of the deleted worker node. This resulted in the `LVMCluster` CR remaining in `Progressing` state. With this release, upon deleting the worker node in the SNO and worker node topology, {lvms} deletes the worker node configuration in the `LVMCluster` CR, and updates the `LVMCluster` CR state to `Ready`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-13558[OCPBUGS-13558])
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

[id="ocp-4-15-storage-bug-fixes"]
==== Storage

* Prior to this release, {lvms} did not support disabling over-provisioning, and the minimum value for the `thinPoolConfig.overprovisionRatio` field in the `LVMCluster` CR was 2. With this release, you can disable over-provisioning by setting the value of the `thinPoolConfig.overprovisionRatio` field to 1. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-24396[OCPBUGS-24396])

* Prior to this relase, if the `LVMCluster` CR was created with an invalid device path in the `deviceSelector.optionalPaths` field , the `LVMCluster` CR was in `Progressing` state. With this release, If the `deviceSelector.optionalPaths` field contains an invalid device path, {lvms} updates the `LVMCluster` CR state to `Failed`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23995[OCPBUGS-23995])

> * Prior to this release, upon updating {product-title}, the old LVM resource pods were also scheduled on the cluster along with the latest LVM resource pods. With this release, upon updating {product-title}, {lvms} configures the `priorityClassName` parameter to ensure that only the latest LVM resource pods are scheduled on the cluster. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23375[OCPBUGS-23375])

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

> * Prior to this release, upon creating the `LVMCluster` CR, {lvms} skipped the counting of the volume groups. This resulted in the `LVMCluster` CR moving to `Progressing` state even when the volume groups were valid. With this release, upon creating the `LVMCluster` CR, {lvms} counts all the volume groups, and updates the `LVMCluster` CR state to `Ready` if the volume groups are valid. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23191[OCPBUGS-23191])

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

> * Prior to this release, if the default device class was not present on all nodes, {lvms} failed to detect all the default device classes. With this release, {lvms} detects all the default device classes even if the default device class is present only on the selected nodes. With this update, you can define the default device class only on the selected nodes. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23181[OCPBUGS-23181])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Prior to this release, if the default device class was not present on all selected nodes, {lvms} failed to setup LVMCluster. With this release, {lvms} detects all the default device classes even if the default device class is present only on one of the selected nodes. With this update, you can define the default device class only on one of the selected nodes. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23181[OCPBUGS-23181])
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

* Prior to this release, upon deleting the worker node in the single-node OpenShift (SNO) and worker node topology, the `LVMCluster` CR still included the configuration of the deleted worker node. This resulted in the `LVMCluster` CR remaining in `Progressing` state. With this release, upon deleting the worker node in the SNO and worker node topology, {lvms} deletes the worker node configuration in the `LVMCluster` CR, and updates the `LVMCluster` CR state to `Active`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-13558[OCPBUGS-13558])

> * Prior to this release, the Assisted Installer and the Assisted Service did not support installing {lvms} on multi-node clusters. With this release, the Assisted Installer and the Assisted Service support installing {lvms} on multi-node cluters. With this update, you can install {lvms} on the {product-title} cluster with multiple master nodes. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-24319[OCPBUGS-24319])

Reviewer 2: This needs to be removed as the errata had this removed due to the Bug not being validated in time

Author: Just to confirm:

Release note about "Assisted Installer" must be removed?

Reviewer 2: Correct, respective bug is no longer part of errata due to timeline conflict.

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

[id="ocp-4-15-storage-bug-fixes"]
==== Storage

* Prior to this release, {lvms} did not support disabling over-provisioning, and the minimum value for the `thinPoolConfig.overprovisionRatio` field in the `LVMCluster` CR was 2. With this release, you can disable over-provisioning by setting the value of the `thinPoolConfig.overprovisionRatio` field to 1. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-24396[OCPBUGS-24396])

> * Prior to this relase, if the `LVMCluster` CR was created with an invalid device path in the `deviceSelector.optionalPaths` field , the `LVMCluster` CR was in `Progressing` state. With this release, If the `deviceSelector.optionalPaths` field contains an invalid device path, {lvms} updates the `LVMCluster` CR state to `Failed`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23995[OCPBUGS-23995])

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Prior to this release, if the `LVMCluster` CR was created with an invalid device path in the `deviceSelector.optionalPaths` field, the `LVMCluster` CR was in a `Progressing` state. With this release, If the `deviceSelector.optionalPaths` field contains an invalid device path, {lvms} updates the `LVMCluster` CR state to `Failed`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23995[OCPBUGS-23995])
```

* Prior to this release, if the default device class was not present on all selected nodes, {lvms} failed to set up the `LVMCluster` CR. With this release, {lvms} detects all the default device classes even if the default device class is present only on one of the selected nodes. With this update, you can define the default device class only on one of the selected nodes. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23181[OCPBUGS-23181])

* Prior to this release, upon deleting the worker node in the single-node OpenShift (SNO) and worker node topology, the `LVMCluster` CR still included the configuration of the deleted worker node. This resulted in the `LVMCluster` CR remaining in `Progressing` state. With this release, upon deleting the worker node in the SNO and worker node topology, {lvms} deletes the worker node configuration in the `LVMCluster` CR, and updates the `LVMCluster` CR state to `Ready`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-13558[OCPBUGS-13558])

> 

Reviewer 5: Please bold the link text for all of our bug fixes.

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

Reviewer 5: Not sure how this will publish as is, but the correct syntax is

`(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23375[*OCPBUGS-23375*])`

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.
